[Music]
okay
oh
me
[Music]
is
give me
[Music]
hello my name is karsten and welcome to
what will hopefully be a new let's play
a tell your sophie the alchemist and
mysterious book
now i have played some of the atelier
games previously
first one i played actually was the
atelier
twittery uh one of the few one of only
two games actually on the
uh playstation consoles that i've gotten
platinum on
also played um
the uh atelier meru
that did not get planted on that also
played um
oh my mind's blanking out on the names
but the first one in the dusk series
i have in my queue but have not
played uh the other atelier games
the other italian games after tottery i
have not played though the remake
of um
uh the one before try to read my mind is
blinking out but in any case
i've played some of these before uh
though i am behind
i did watch the anime of
uh atelier eska and logie
so i have kind of some vague idea of the
plot with that
but that was back when that anime was
due apparently logie shows up in this
i'm going into this almost completely
blind
uh all i know is a couple of the
characters that show up
basically the images that have been
shown and the
uh preview trailer that's been shown
which was
essentially the same as what you saw
there plus the images on the store
website so
let's go ahead and get going and see if
we can make this into a let's play
okay rick time's over
[Music]
now back to work i need to put in the
pony ball
and then add the uni after boiling it
for a little while
yeah this is going well now i just have
to mix it a little and
huh this is weird what's with this color
oh it stinks oh no wait
this is kirchen bell a small town
brimming with greenery and the sounds of
church bells
a certain girl lives alone in this town
[Applause]
her name is sophie here she runs a
natalier
using the alchemy she learned from her
late grandmother
although she still has quite a lot of
room for improvement
[Music]
messed up again
this rate i'll never be as good as
grandma was
if only there was a way to suddenly get
really good at alchemy
then i could make amazing medicine and
stuff and everyone in town would rely on
me
i wouldn't have any problems if that was
the case
i guess i should clean up
oh yes it's open
[Music]
hello sophie what's that smell
i messed up again importantly
why are you here monica do you need
something
yes there's something i'd like to ask of
you huh
it's unusual for you to have a request
what do you need
i just met with meister horst he was
asking for some bird medicine
but i've gone to every shop and i can't
find it anywhere
so i thought you might know something
you know
you're kind of an alchemist right that's
why i'm asking
i'm not kind of one
huh i've never tried making that
i saw grandma making it before so i
should be able to make it too
i decided to accept you don't have to
force yourself if it'll be difficult
no it's fine i can't just ignore someone
in need
leave it all to me oh but i'm still not
confident about it
so i should look for grandma's book
yes i did the pre-order dlc
which apparently has a few extra items
and the aqua suit costume which
apparently is something introduced with
the system that
comes in later in the game
[Music]
all right so let's take a look i've
heard several things are different in
this one
as far as how time management
and alchemy and everything works
so i think that's the book i need to go
to
a little talk icon that's cute uh let's
check settings
yeah these are just the same ones on the
title screen which i did double check
before i started recording um
easy normal heart and despair uh
i don't think i want to be left in
despair right now let's stick with
normal
[Music]
and let's see
boy those things are ugly little spikes
on it
[Applause]
let's see does this have
defense enhance fixed recovery
[Applause]
the that is in the container okay
if you say so
okay just kind of glancing over
there's a lock on it why is there a lock
on her equipment
maybe that's a lock on that she's always
in my party i don't know
[Music]
all right everything has
encyclopedia entries with
text down below people's comments on it
and everything
boy that's gonna be a lot of stuff to
read if i
feel like going through all this
[Music]
and of course the explo the explorer
items don't seem to have different
categories that's interesting
because i know before you have like a
shoe item and a bag item
and things like that
but in any case let's go ahead and let's
see that's outside don't want to do that
yet
it's over here oh
this is these are grandma's snack
recipes waffles
and sears i'm getting hungry just
looking through this
sophie oh no it's nothing this is the
wrong book
can you take this a bit more seriously
[Music]
so can i get recipes from those anyway
please i always want to get more recipes
i guess it's this other place here
wait no there's question marks all over
the place
i can't find it wait
what's this book
[Music]
what's wrong it's just that there's a
book here that i don't recognize
it has a very elegant binding i wonder
what's inside
let's take a look
i see i see ah this is a reference book
for alchemy
but only the beginning is the rest of it
is all blank pages
maybe grandma was writing it
hmm i see yeah
anyway monica after looking at this i
suddenly remembered
huh remembered what how to make the bird
medicine
the thing you were asking about really
you think you can make it
of course i have enough material so i
can mix it up real quick now
yes please do so just be careful not to
make another mistake okay
i'll be fine just leave it to me
all right and synthesize now
this desk allows you to save and load
set the time to whenever you like by
sleeping in the bed yeah i've heard
there isn't a time limit so much in this
game but there is like day and night and
weather and stuff
if you're turned to the atlear late at
night you will automatically rest until
morning
burke renaissance that was interesting
uh things that it showed there
don't know how to get back to that
[Music]
all right all right time to try making
it
good luck sophie leave it to me
okay what should i make
oh yes and i was thinking oh picking up
a mysterious book at least a bunch of
cloakers didn't fly out of it
all right first select one of the
recipes you've learned since this
requires you have designated items
looking at the symbols yes um
the different symbols i forget which is
which but it'll probably tell us one
represents you have it another
represents you can craft it and the
other represents no
ah yes there we go
so only one we can make of course
yep select materials
[Music]
you need to require have specific
requirements or just a category
category value that represents its
affinity with a category i think that's
new
category values displayed the item
icon items lower right number
lower right as a number
[Music]
the numbers color represents the item's
color
that's not a number that wait unless
it's
the number that's shown on the item on
the left side of the screen because the
number shown in the lower right in the
middle
is a letter but numbers color represents
the item's color
and square to swap the information to
check the items categories and
categories
i think can be can things be more than
one category in this game
oh well yes of course they can't duh
because they could in previous games too
um for ingredients let's see
[Music]
okay it looks like i just have two of
these it's not i was thinking the 10 was
a
quantity but no i guess that is the
affinity for whatever it is so select
what it does
[Music]
[Applause]
window on the right uh quality effect
value size count i
think what by the right they mean the
middle
[Music]
effect value i don't see
use count can increase up to three times
as size grows to certain points
okay
oh i see overwatch oh and they're on the
far right ikey i see it is talking about
the far right
okay
i need to put in two of these oh that
was for the next category
no it does need two of them
okay and this needs a category animal
okay so i need two magic grass
one animal and one water okay i see
this does this has a red
under the um that number so i guess that
means it's barely
well it's a tutorial item
[Applause]
this is red and that has green and that
has blue
and i don't know
[Music]
but said the color represents it but
i don't know unless it's that letter
even though they said number
because i don't know we'll figure it out
is this really okay
select synthesize to start
all right
[Music]
made one okay
because i saw something and you see
under size there's that thing
i saw something where the alchemy stuff
kind of looks like tetris
but that may be a system that gets
unlocked as we go up in levels i know
some of the options
in the previous games didn't show up
until you went up in levels
[Music]
all right
[Applause]
okay
[Music]
so is this like a tree as we learn stuff
all right done monica it's ready
[Music]
that's amazing it really is bird
medicine
thank you sophie you really helped me
out don't worry about it
we're friends right right
anyway i'll take this over to meister
horse now
hey monica do you mind if i go along
huh i don't mind but why
i'm the one who made this medicine if it
turned out to be no good it would mean
trouble
i think it's fine but well it couldn't
hurt
let's go yeah oh just a minute
i should write the recipe into the
reference book while it's still fresh in
my mind
sorry for the weight monica anyway let's
go see meister horse
you know there's one thing i learned
from anime mysterious
books glowing ominously is never a good
[Music]
thing
meister horst
[Music]
ah youtube do you need anything
meister horst i brought the berg
medicine you requested
oh thank you very much for bringing it
so quickly monica
well actually sophie made it i couldn't
find any bird medicine myself
sophie you made this yes
um is there something wrong with it
not at all in fact it's quite rare to
see burg medicine as fine as this
it seems your skills with alchemy are
improving quite a bit sophie
[Music]
you two have been very helpful here's
your payment
[Music]
wow thank you so much morris
um i didn't really do anything i can't
accept this
no no i'm the one who made such a sudden
request
think of it as a payment for your time i
insist
very well i'll accept it gratefully
thank you too sophie if you're ever
troubled by anything
just ask i'll do whatever i can to help
anyway
i'll get going now have a good day
meisterhorst sophie
yes have a good day
[Music]
i worked hard today huh
what that book is floating i
i didn't think books could do that you
just got home
and you're already so loud oh sorry
wait what did the book just
talk yes i talked
what the book the book is
talking please just calm down
people are able to talk it's not strange
for a book to talk to
huh um i don't think that's how it works
um so you're that reference book from
earlier right
the one i wrote in yes
i'm placta
[Music]
oh you have a name i'm sophie
sophie i shall remember that
um miss plocta just call me plocta
ah okay um plopta
what exactly are you
a book i can see that but
you're a book yet you're flying and
talking
it's really strange it's true that i'm
different from an
ordinary book that's because i
i that's strange i can't remember
what exactly am i
um that's what i want to know wait
flacta
do you not have any memories it seems so
i can remember that i'm related to
alchemy though
alchemy then i might be able to help i'm
actually an alchemist
yes i know a novice alchemist who
doesn't even know how to produce bird
medicine
oh so you saw that but i can make it now
even a child could make that if they
studied a little bit
[Music]
but but meister horse praised me for it
saying it was really well made from my
point of view it didn't appear
particularly excellent in
any way yeah
i'm terrible at alchemy i make lots of
mistakes
and i can't make lots of things i can't
help the people around town like my
grandma was able to
do you wish to become better
huh i'm asking you if you wish to become
better at alchemy
of course i do i would if i could
there is a device called the cauldron of
knowledge it allows anyone to use the
power of alchemy
with that you would be able to make free
use of alchemy
as you so desire there's an amazing
device like that
i want it where can i find it the
cauldron of knowledge is
oh this is strange
oh no don't tell me
you forgot where the cauldron is it
seems so
what are you serious that's terrible
who got my hopes up only to crush them
i am very sorry but i can't remember at
all
as compensation i can teach you alchemy
myself
i may have lost my memories but i'm
confident that my knowledge of alchemy
exceeds yours
you do seem pretty smart and you
probably do know more about alchemy than
me
if you'll teach me i'll go i accept
very well we'll be working together
starting now sophie
yeah i look forward to it plata
[Music]
[Applause]
my
[Music]
[Applause]
m
[Music]
oh
[Applause]
[Music]
me
okay let's not waste any time can you
teach me some stuff
papa you're quite enthusiastic
yeah i don't want to be a novice forever
very well try synthesizing something
first
synthesis i can do that
let's see materials
oh what's wrong
[Music]
i used all my materials when i made that
burg medicine
i have nothing left then it seems you
need to gather some
is there a place nearby where you can do
that
yeah i know of a place but puny appeared
there
so i'm scared to go alone all right
i can have monica come with me monica
is that the girl who was with you
yesterday yeah she's actually really
strong
i see then you should be safe very well
please be careful huh you're not coming
too
as you can see even if i was to go i
wouldn't be able to fight
seeing how i'm a book and all oh that's
right
okay i'll be off then yes
try to come back quickly time is finite
after all
if you take too long i won't have as
much time to teach you alchemy
you're right okay i'll try to hurry back
[Music]
all right well before we do that
let's go ahead and uh and save
we got looks like i guess a couple
[Music]
things to do go grab the materials
invite monica
but for right now we'll go ahead and
where's the save desk
save disk is back this way
and we'll see how this goes don't know
how well this will lend itself to doing
a let's play but i will give it a try
in any case thanks for watching hope you
enjoy
and i will see you next time
[Music]
welcome back to let's play atlear uh
sophie
my name is karsten picking up basically
where we left off there
i believe we are now set to go gather
materials what am i hearing
that must be the cauldron yes that's the
cauldron okay
i'm assuming this is the way out
time will pass yes um
since it's supposed to be a bit
different in this game sure
see the current time and date
no no yes that'll pass time to pass
now movement is probably oh if it's
anything like the others it's like
movement but
between major areas not just like
walking around within the same area
time cost changes in monsters gatherable
items that's new
i think wheat consists of five days
sprout bud flour fruit and seed
[Music]
okay fruit and seed people around town
will be doing different things than
during the week
[Music]
but i'd like to have a three day work
week with two days off
30 days in a month
okay i heard there isn't like a fixed
time limit in this game but let's see
okay i need to
reverse the left and right
camera settings
[Music]
there we go let's see
so that's there
there's the well here's the person
monica saw her in the plaza earlier okay
oh yeah that's right so i need to go to
the plaza
so that is
this way i guess so what's over here
[Music]
let me jump oh yes i need to find out
if barrel barrel
yes oh you get a trophy for that
you always got to check the barrels
because they say barrel when you check
the barrels in the atlear games
doesn't look like there's anything else
out here for the moment
though i'm sure there will be something
at some point later otherwise there
would probably not be
that much space
not doing anything let's see that's that
can the map be set to rotate because
that's
now i don't see a
option to have the map rotate unless
does that do it
now
[Laughter]
[Music]
i want the map to rotate with me
otherwise that would drive me nuts but
we'll see
let's head to the main street to go
shopping but first i need to go visit
the church on the plaza and pray
all right see
what's up
monica will you come gathering with me
why are you asking all of a sudden i
don't have any materials for synthesis
i want to go gather some but i'm scared
to go alone
ah i see of course i'll go besides
you help me with meister horse request
all right
thanks monica no problem
by the way sophie have you outfitted
yourself properly
huh yeah i have my handkerchief and
snacks
that's not what i meant you need
medicine and other supplies right
we're going to a place where monsters
appear you need to prepare properly
oh you're right i'll be sure to bring
some stuff
[Music]
all right so monica's in our party now
so you have to equip items to take them
out
um sure let's view the tutorial
the limit to the types of items that can
be equipped
okay we have equipment costs i think we
had i played a little bit
not all the way through i didn't get a
chance of esca and laggy
so i think they had something similar
you had equip
items you couldn't just throw them all
in your bag
okay you can see if a character can
equip
okay okay so there's that's interesting
[Music]
so because the some of the earlier games
items could only be used by alchemists
basically it was characters could or
couldn't use items
so it looks like there's a little bit
more flexibility here
i will hold off on
these for the moment
let's see what's this guy have to say
got interesting little accessories on
him you from a final fantasy game
it's a top adventure yeah it's one final
fantasy game
time to go hunting outside if you make
preparations maybe i'll take a look at
the requests
yes you have to do requests to get stuff
um this is that looks like outside-ish
i think this though is okay that's the
church
it looks like there are ways to go other
than
this old town
i guess not all the exits are marked i
guess the exits are marked or things
that have stuff to do
temporary clothes for major cleaning
okay
what if we go to old town something else
to do
all right
[Music]
south is where i came from so let's head
west
[Music]
why if it isn't sophie and monica are
you going somewhere
[Music]
oh mrs marguerite yes i'm going to help
sophie gather materials
right sophie wow these are nice
your vegetables look so tasty today too
yum it seems
sophie is charmed by my vegetables again
sophie
[Music]
huh oh right yeah we're going to go
gathering
i see i see make sure to be careful
yes thank you for your concern
that makes me wonder where my foolish
son wandered off to
if you see him tell him i'm looking for
him got it
i'll let him know if i see him anyway
we'll be going now
yes take care
all right let's see next up
see so i just came from there over
here is the cafe
[Music]
store closed interior cleaning probably
can't go anywhere else yet
still getting ready to open shop of
course can't
a little bit of railroading going on at
the beginning of these games of course
shop huh
probably closed too it's locked empty
house i'm sure that will be
someone that shows up later have
something else to do okay
so where are we going then i guess back
up north
[Music]
i thought that's where i came from but i
guess not
okay well it'll take me a while to get
the layout of the town because
i thought that's where i came from
who are you welcome to christian bell
can guide you if you need anything
welcome to christian grill hello npc
okay i guess that's all there is to do
here
probably not a lot to do
[Music]
right now other than get on with the uh
tutorial-ish thing
let's see what the map looks like here
where should i go
chickwoods lp
over to the right
other things to do right now
[Music]
oh i see i have to move it over there to
i thought it was already highlighted
[Music]
so they got
entries things to uh
what's gatherable what's monsters
entry what does that say oh that's to
okay
[Music]
info options is the system menu
change background music
[Music]
okay
well i will leave it on the default for
right now i was listening to the
soundtrack to this game earlier and uh
that's pretty nice but i like the music
and gus games
but let's go on to the woods
huh what is that it's a red dot on the
ground
[Music]
so things like this happen too
ah the fresh air is great i feel like i
haven't been outside of town in a long
time
sophie you need to be more careful we
have no idea when monsters could appear
i know wait
is someone over there that's
hey oscar
[Music]
oh sophie and monica what are you doing
out here
we're here to gather alchemy materials
what about you
i came to observe the plants the plants
here tell some interesting stories
oscar don't tell me you were talking to
plants again
that's exactly what i was doing what's
weird about that
to me it's weirder not to be able to
talk to plants
yeah you were always like this i don't
really intend to argue after all this
time
that sounded vaguely like an insult oh
right
oscar mrs marguerite was looking for you
oh crap i totally forgot about my
delivery
mom's gonna scold me this is your own
fault
just accept it oscar
huh what was that sound
tony sophie stand back oscar
you can fight right what wait a second
i'm not prepared for this here they come
uh sure let's view the explanation just
in case things changed though
pretty sure it's mostly standard
turn-based rpg stuff
select actions attack defense
use commands it's pretty standard
let's go in order top turn order sure
this is the turn order which is always
nice
order can change depending on actions
stance okay that's new
[Music]
offensive and defensive
stance can be switched anytime while
selecting commands by pressing l1
r1 with different perks choosing offense
will increase
attack it allows you to perform support
attacks following up with additional
attacks from other allies
sucking defense will increase your
defense allows you to support
guard oh so we can't just do either we
have to choose beforehand
previous games you could do attack or
guard depending on what's going on
i have to plan ahead okay
each port action will automatically be
used when the chain link gate
automatic huh okay
because before you had to trigger it
[Music]
okay so they'll have warning for that
that's always nice
all right let's take these guys out
quick
all right
okay i thought this meant support
defense was highlighted this is offense
highlighted there's defense highlighted
we'll leave it on offense for right now
[Music]
item skill probably doesn't have
anything in skill
oh magic damage cool
kind of tempted to do that just to see
what it is
i like the battle music too you know
what let's do this and see what it does
oh it's queued up
[Music]
what can you do so he has a cure
okay i'll just go ahead and attack
oh everything gets queued up even
attacks that's interesting but now
what can you do and that will move it
okay so i see when i do that on the left
that moves down to show when it's going
to happen single target
attack and reduce attack power and if i
do attack
that will do happen then okay
and they have seen lines between them
maybe that'll
not sure what that'll do but it's
probably a good thing
time to get back to observing plants
[Music]
one xp all right
and got some pity balls
i thought i was going to die
you both appear uninjured yeah somehow
i didn't think they'd attack all of a
sudden like that
hey oscar do you want to come with us
it's dangerous to be alone
monsters could attack again you're
probably right
all right i'll go with you i wouldn't
want to get hurt after all
in that case let's get started with the
gathering oh
you need to help too oscar
what i never said i'd do that we won't
tell mrs marguerite we saw you here
okay fine i got it
his hat looks like a melon
okay let's look at the tutorial just in
case things have changed again since the
last one i played
probably not these kind of things are
pretty consistent but let's double check
[Music]
yep press x together items
monsters touching an enemy will start a
battle
yes hit the battle by swinging first
start
yep that's pretty standard
[Music]
okay so here's the gathering point
so can i change
[Music]
now it doesn't look like an i was
looking to see if i could maybe change
who's
leading the party and if that had any
effect doesn't look like it
all right there should be plenty
talk about using people what should we
do sophie
wanna look around a little more huh
no way that's enough i'm exhausted
and if we stick around too long some
dangerous monsters could appear
oscar might be right okay then
let's head back yeah oh both of you
should drop by the atlea
i'll make tea for you oh really
then we'll take you up on that offer
right oscar
yeah but first let me catch my breath
changes in gathering fields yes changes
information on that would be good
[Music]
at low lp your stats will be reduced
okay that's good to know
[Music]
increases when you explore the same map
over and over the higher number lets you
gather better materials but enemies get
stronger that's interesting
[Music]
the other role items things can change
depending on the time of day and weather
that's good to know
[Music]
let's just take a look around here
see if there's anything else
[Music]
i'm not seeing anything else
i think that's going to be it
just want to make sure i don't miss
anything while i'm out here
probably not the tutorial things tend to
be kind of railroady
but i'll go ahead and use this exit on
the opposite side
[Music]
all right where to
we're back
[Music]
welcome back that took a long time
that book is floating and talking
i never thought i'd hear the voices of
books in addition to plants
no oscar it isn't just you i can hear it
too
this time sophie it seems your friends
are just as loud as you are
i'm pretty sure anyone would be
surprised if they saw you glacta
um both of you this is
[Music]
you wrote something in a reference book
and it started talking
sounds more like a dream i never thought
that book would turn out to be something
this amazing
i was shocked at first too i mean a book
was flying and talking after all
i don't think it's that shocking no it
is so
um miss pluckta
just call me pluckta oh okay then
plopta what or who are you
ah i asked the same question but it
seems like popta doesn't have any
memories
really yes the only things i know are my
name
and a little knowledge of alchemy right
that's why i want to figure out a way to
get her memories back
memories huh maybe they'll come back if
you found some sort of clue
a clue
[Music]
oh sophie i just thought of something
flacta started talking because
you wrote something in the book right
yeah i think that did it
then maybe her memories will return if
you write more recipes into the book
wow that makes sense you're pretty sharp
monica
what do you think plocta it doesn't
sound farfetched
i think it would be worth trying okay
in that case i'll study lots of alchemy
and write lots of recipes into you
feel like some sort of fate brought us
here if there's anything i can help with
let me know yeah i'll help with whatever
i can too
thank you both
whoa it's getting late i need to get
home where mom will scold me again
i'll be leaving as well see you later
sophie and plota
yeah see you
i need to work hard for plata
yes i have high hopes sophie
send obtained items to the container uh
yes
[Music]
um okay
i i this is just looking at them
[Music]
i don't remember that at least the last
game i played i had the little icons
next to
the type like the ingredient secret
power and plant medicine and animal and
thread
i they might have but i don't recall
the last one i played did
i'm curious how that size thing works
out the screen shot i saw
kind of like a tetris kind of thing but
we'll see
and i've sent a container all right
well it's been about 25 minutes and this
seems like a good stopping point
so i will go ahead and
save for now and
i will see you next time
[Music]
hope you enjoy
welcome back to let's play athlear
sophie my name is karsten
so we just gathered some materials and i
believe the next thing to do
is talk to the book and maybe do some
more alchemy
okay no time to play around and so you
need to teach me so
are you gonna teach me or what are we
gonna do
let's see if yeah they say they left but
they're still in my party
uh let's go to events
i get the materials so i guess i use
synthesis again
all right time to start synthesizing
teach me whatever you can okay i
understand
okay what should i make
well i guess this is all we can make
right now material should i use
uh let's use the only ones available
i don't think there's oh it's one of
them see
[Music]
let me see here use these two of these i
have two of these so i guess
not much trace here is there any
difference between these
no one of them is c
and kind of light i don't think i'm
gonna
use that right now i don't think it
makes any difference on what i end up
with
right now this is just uh
still in the tutorial section here sorry
okay
yeah that's okay okay then let's start
you can now perform even more detailed
synthesis okay
so now is where the grid thing shows up
placing materials on the panel where
increased quality and effect
synthesized item try selecting the well
water all right
you can choose where to place it try
placing the well on lower right
okay can it rotate
maybe later right now i can't rotate i
think something good will happen
quality will increase when more panels
are covered and taking
bonus lights on the panels will increase
the effect value of that material
surrounding panels will gain colors
and the same color bonuses will appear
next select the magic grass and place it
in the top left
[Music]
okay
i think it would work better there but
[Music]
since it won't let me place it anywhere
but here all right
this is going well placing magic grass
caused the surrounding bonuses to grow
larger oh
okay you can increase the effect of
bonuses by placing materials adjacent to
them
larger bonuses were greater effects
taking them with the same color lets you
gain even
greater effect value well they're not
going to be taken with the same color
because the other one's red
next select monster feather appear no
matter where you place the monster
feather it will overlap
place this on top of the batch of grass
to see what happens i just going to
complain at me yeah
this is good magic grass this place has
disappeared only the monster feather
remains
yeah okay there's no little sink and not
be visible this won't cause it to fail
but it'll be harder to gain quality and
select materials do your best to choose
ones that will overlap
[Music]
and select the last one move it in the
upper right
where all the bonuses are concentrated
okay
i see what they had me do there
not exactly where i would have moved
things i would have had the magic
or the the feather be up one more but
we'll go with this
the color covering the majority will
gain an effect value increase
[Music]
these red green red blue and green but
they all cover the same number
so all materials gain an 18 increase
[Music]
oh it only takes an hour as things are
broken down into hours for synthesis
times versus
days of previous ones things will always
round up to the next day
recovery excess change change recovery s
but you also gain a new effect recovery
bonus
s order and location
place the materials along with material
colors can greatly affect results
[Music]
cover the entire panel again a large
quality bonus greatly benefiting your
set this as well
unless or until i can rotate things
[Music]
can't do that with what i have right now
test all kinds of materials and
placements and try to cover the entire
panel
yeah this is okay since you won't let me
do anything else
[Music]
all right made one okay
and it looks like everyone on my party
can you have medicine equipped so that's
good
[Music]
wow this turned out better than before
yes even with the same recipe the way
you make it can greatly change the
results
alchemy is based on creativity and
ingenuity
you should remember that creativity
okay i understand by the way flacta
i want to try making something else now
that also depends on your creativity
huh what do you mean
there are various things you experience
during your daily life
things you see hear and feel
if you base your creativity off of that
you may come up with new alchemy recipes
[Music]
so you're saying i should do all kinds
of things i
suppose that would be putting it very
simply
okay i get it i'll just try whatever
comes to mind
yes you should try that at the very
least the experience will be good for
you
daily actions because we think up new
item recipes
um sure let's see what item id what
recipe ideas um simply for
particular actions we can work with new
recipes for items
okay so that's what that thing made is i
thought it was like a skill
tree or something
so not that of yet thought up and not
made yet
[Music]
okay under main menu check refer
recipe ideas i'll definitely take a look
at that
summer speeds are key to bringing about
couples memories
display a progress meter until they're
thought out okay
[Applause]
[Music]
for some reason when plucked was talking
about creativity and stuff
i just popped into my mind
raising heart talking about strategy and
tactics to nanoha in the movie
but anyway uh if any of you have seen
that but in any case let's take a look
here
let's so encyclopedia i think that's new
recipe idea what do we have
[Music]
not thought up and locked
[Applause]
[Music]
okay
machine what's in there cauldron
weapon and armor
usable items
[Applause]
this just shows all the things i've got
so far what was that one normally
okay
[Music]
i remember for uh mirror i went so far
as to write a program in a database
to where you could put in you
choose an item and it would tell you and
break down the entire
tree of crafting it and everything in it
just because some of the stuff
like the speed belt and stuff got so
complicated to
craft all the components of and plan it
out
but let's see next up let's go to events
and see what they want us to do next
think up the recipe for bomb
all right well
so
[Music]
let's figure out where we can think up a
recipe for a bomb
probably out about in town unless i talk
to you let's see
no time to play around to go do stuff
now map function has been unlocked
um i'm pretty sure this is just fast
travel
[Applause]
yeah oh and it shows who's there that's
convenient
[Music]
so that's accessed with l1
forest at your town old town
plaza street town entrance
okay
um i want to take a look because there's
a red dot over here wait hang on
what's this green green thing here
ah that's gathering water
[Music]
i got an idea from that apparently
beginner recipes so tick and be
synthesized
okay well that was convenient
weenie bag okay that's bomb okay so i
can
look at these
[Music]
okay
monsters memory from completing requests
okay so i need to slay monsters and
complete requests
okay
gives me something to do here let's go
this way because that's highlighted in
red
no that's the world map don't want to do
that quite yet
let's go to
what's in the nearby forest
[Music]
i love the music in these games hello
who are you
should i play today
[Music]
it doesn't look like there's anything
over here right now
well that looks like it'll have
significance at some point
ah okay
[Music]
and what are you doing out here so late
maybe i'll predict tomorrow's weather
okay well
or you could just not do that
uh let's see let's
go into the cafe
welcome sophie thank you for the other
day oh
no it was nothing if there's anything
else you need
feel free to ask in that case may i ask
now
huh is there something you need
yes many people come to this shop so i
naturally receive
many requests i'd be grateful if you
were able to take care of some of those
requests
um would it really be okay if i did them
you were able to make something like
that after all i think you would do just
fine
also i'll make sure to only give you
requests that i believe you can handle
i understand in that case i'll try it
thank you very much i receive much more
information than just requests
so just ask me if there's something you
wish to know more about
[Music]
and now accept requests and purchase
rumors
um yeah i think i know about requests
but let's see what rumors are
requests are yep standard types of
[Music]
go fetch or go kill
some have deadlines of course
[Music]
rumors allow you to pay money in
exchange for information
like available ingredients monster
occurrences i will
probably avoid those unless i'm swimming
in money because
or unless i really get stuck because
well
it's just information that i can
probably figure out
or look up a fact if i get really stuck
[Music]
unless it's required for something i
might purchase one to see if i get an
achievement for purchasing one
oh rumors cause changes to areas the
rules that cause changes to areas will
be displayed on the world map
some rumors will end after a period of
time passes
okay well maybe i will get them
because maybe that does
have things that i need to do i guess i
should get them
so much for that
okay so
welcome
[Music]
i'd like to try this thing that doesn't
actually give me anything it's an
interesting table design
all right so let's take a look at stuff
welcome thank you for coming sophie
which request will you accept
[Music]
uh defeats uh blue puny
let's see
[Music]
doesn't say how many it just says defeat
maybe it's just one thank you
i'm counting on you
what's this my ghosts
[Music]
go and collect any okay well i'm sure i
will find those at some point
thank you and
may as well grab these i'm sure i'll be
able to get these
i need some monster feathers sure can
grab that
welcome thank you what rumor do you wish
to hear
well let's see
um
[Music]
oh no there it is 500 up in the corner i
was trying to see how
much i had
this looks like it's the only thing that
is going to have an effect on stuff
it's 300
ah what the heck is that rumor okay
yeah may as well thank you very much
i'll tell you now
okay i guess we do get an achievement
for
getting a rumor
can you stop okay
that's interesting
welcome
well for right now let's head out
[Music]
and let's go to
let's go back here actually
yeah it's late at night let's go back
here
learn that recipe
what kind of stuff should i make let's
make one just so that we have it
assuming i can
um
i don't have any fuel so i don't think
not enough materials there i see it
right there
okay so we will do that later now
container
[Music]
i already put the water in there
probably
because i don't think i have
[Music]
or were used in the previous games we
had like a basket and we need to worry
about how much is in there
before we transfer to the container but
i don't see
anywhere to have that
um
[Music]
[Applause]
let's see i'm thinking the ghosts
probably only come out at night so let's
see
[Music]
if we can get over to that other place
at night time oh hello
all right where to
let's go over here
[Music]
yeah let's take care of these guys okay
that's that
come here on your guard everyone
this won't be
[Music]
i'll easy do a text
yeah here i go
ow
okay you
[Music]
let's see actually you'd be defensive
give her a relaxing herb to her
um yeah you be defensive
[Music]
and attack
oh is she like has a status effect or
[Music]
something
that was not a lot of hp
that was painful okay you
continue to defend
you attack
[Music]
great work everyone
i feel stronger now dear
hp they do not get filled on a level up
i can apply this experience to the
future
[Music]
that was a fancy level up pose i become
stronger for the plants
[Music]
and we got thingies okay um
threatened by ghosts can be reported i
those guys are like annoyingly tough for
my level
but i will gather up
[Music]
oh and it's morning now okay
oh hello okay on your guard everyone
this won't be easy
[Music]
okay so we want to
we'll attack that one because it says
warning on it
and you will also attack and you
i need another relaxing herb on
[Music]
[Applause]
yeah please
[Music]
okay everybody target that one that says
warning
and in fact everybody target that one
that says warning
except you relaxing herb
on her and hope that she survives
because
[Music]
that don't look good okay
well it's not on sophie that's no no no
no no
okay still alive
[Music]
and it has break okay
whatever that is okay you
attack there
ah let's go ahead and
[Music]
attack that yeah
we'll go with that wide open
here i go
that one is still not dead okay
[Music]
attack
actually if you do this will that well
that'll put you behind it
so you will do attack
and attack and attack
yay we won
[Music]
any fluid
grab these
and this
and let's try to avoid the poonies or
the yeah the hoodies
grab this and poor foodie ended okay
got some of these whoa hello
do not want to fight anything right now
i'm a little weak
it's over here
[Music]
okay i'm going to run away
where are we going next we are going to
run away
uh actually let's grab this hey what's
up
okay but we are not going to do anything
in there because we need to run away
because we are hurting
[Music]
and i'm hoping resting restores hp
um if i hit no
it just sends them all okay
and it's late so we rest till the next
morning okay
now we need to go to
the cafe and turn in those requests
[Music]
welcome sophie hello mr horst
hello buddy girl waitress
tess heitzman
it's good to see you too i haven't seen
you around in a while what were you
doing
not something's going on at home but
i'll be working again starting
today i look forward to seeing you
[Music]
i look forward to it too
and now that i think about it it seems
like there are more customers than usual
gee i wonder why
[Music]
it's because i'm here a shop really
needs a pretty flower to brighten it up
yeah thanks to tesla's return the shop
has become much more lively
just leave it to me i'll boost the shop
sales like crazy
i haven't changed at all test i'm sure
the customers will be happy
since you're here sophie you should
order something and relax okay
except i need to turn in requests
welcome
thank you for which request will you
accept
so we will do that
[Music]
report think and give up okay
thank you very much here is your payment
[Music]
it says now two so i don't know what the
requirements are if i get more for
slaying more of them but
we finished so thank you very much
[Music]
i was hurting and couldn't afford to
really fight more of them at that point
anyway
requested 10 have 12. well i'm glad i
have 12 of them
is there any difference between these
let's
give you the c ones because they don't
and the d ones
and then
let's see how many more that mean okay
thank you very much here is your payment
well i'm glad i accepted that rumor for
getting those
[Music]
the blue proonies well i'm sure we'll be
fighting some of them thank you
welcome thank you for coming sophie it's
37 with zero so i'll have to take a look
and see if
i get more for slaying more of them what
rumor do you wish to hear
and don't worry about this right now
i'll see you again
[Music]
and well not quite
so recipe ideas
[Music]
bleeding press and slay monsters i just
get i just
guess i just have to keep doing those
for right now grindy grindy
grindy
i don't know if i have any gunpowder or
to do that yet
but this is the main one i need to worry
about anyway
[Music]
but i may try making that well i don't
think i have any fuel so let's see what
do you have to say
take your time and relax and just don't
do anything okay because
[Music]
can't talk to you
too much in the corner i can't get to
you
all right see if anything's happening
out here
oh actually yes i need to check if
okay good hp's restored
i see you're working early what do you
want to buy
what do you want to buy what can i do
okay
level 6c high quality versus what i have
in the container
is
level 6c high quality okay same thing
fixed recovery trade
i see what do you want and this
is does not have a trait okay
let me grab a couple of these okay
[Music]
hmm
see that is what that's fueling only 45
what do we have here anything else
that's let's see that's gun power and
that
pattern that's cheap so i will grab a
couple is this okay
thanks as always um
that is also cheap
thanks as always
[Music]
silver potatoes metal okay
that's fuel but that's kind of expensive
at the moment
all right we'll go with that for right
now
what did i think of
oh recipe ideas what did i think of
nothing in particular okay
oh i did think up that maybe sort of
oh
no simple sweets okay
doesn't really show
[Music]
okay
want you anything to say blow anything
up again today
no
all right let's go out to
world map
where are we going next
let's take a look here this has ponies
hey hey let's do our best yeah
all right so let's just try
let's target the one that says warning
on it
[Music]
wide open
here i go
quit targeting her
[Music]
yay we won
let's see
[Music]
let's end this quickly
time to get back to observing plants
all right and together
wait do those things like just refresh a
lot
come here
time to get back to observing plants
let's see if i can at least get everyone
another level and maybe
[Music]
time to get back to observing plants
should be able to level up in just one
or two more it doesn't seem to be
getting more memories i guess i need to
do requests
more but at least
okay hey let's do our best yeah
[Music]
they hardly put up a fight
all right one more and then i'll leave
the field
okay just fight like we usually do
well after
after i get that gathering spot
yay we won
yeah everyone got a level i feel
stronger
i can apply this experience to the
future
yeah i think so far she has the best
level up pose i've become stronger for
the plants
[Music]
oh actually that is nearly done
what do we have still poonies
what is over there
have i got that one yet
all right let's get you
probably should have focused on the oven
oh well
[Music]
definitely should have focused on that
one oh well
not that big a deal
all right okay i guess i'm glad i did
that one
didn't think it was making progress but
i guess it did mom can be synthesized
head out this direction
and then head home all right where to
uh now just set them all there
[Music]
rest up
and learn to bomb
and generate simple sweets okay so it
doesn't actually show
fully until i come back here
i'll write the recipe into you yes
please do so
[Music]
so do you remember anything yes i just
remembered something
really we did it hey so what do you
remember
owlet cow leather is used as my binding
i see
i see wait that's it
yes
[Music]
um i was hoping for something more
amazing than that
you don't remember anymore something
amazing
oh there is one thing oh really what is
it
[Applause]
i'm a reference book made not for
reading but for recording
in other words my purpose is to have
knowledge written into me
um i don't really get it are you saying
your proper uses to keep writing recipes
into you
it seems so
well it seems like writing in you really
did bring back your memories so i guess
this is the right way
okay i'll keep studying more alchemy to
bring back your memories
[Music]
a new gathering field all right
well we will take a look at that next
time
where is the sears the save desk
hope you enjoy thanks for watching and i
will see you
next time
[Music]
welcome back to let's play out there
sophie my name is karsten
we just got some more recipes so let's
try synthesizing
and see what we get what to make
do not have enough materials
and my alchemy level is too low
all right
i can make some of these things
what do i need that
that
ideally
[Music]
i want to get something else of those
that i can make on my own
let's see if we can make this
i'm going to be probably making
everything eventually
[Music]
[Applause]
and
[Music]
and let's see
i have a bunch of these we'll just use
one of these
little shapes
okay not too worried about these mainly
just doing these to
do them
that is shapes yeah like that
good that is shaped like
that
[Music]
hmm
yeah this looks good
let's do that now
now we want to redo that
[Music]
and then that there
sure good enough good enough for what
i'm trying out right now
i hope i can rotate those at some point
yeah
[Music]
all right so we got those
and let's see what materials
make one of these
so i'll do two of these
[Applause]
hmm about dresser well water
[Music]
i guess i'll just use well water
and for here let's see that because both
of those
have that shape
[Music]
so for here
let's use cobalt grass
[Music]
it actually is let's use magic grass
okay let's start
put that there this is good
and um
[Music]
[Applause]
put that
this isn't bad
now we want to put that
[Music]
all right got an alchemy level out of
that
[Applause]
make more of those
i need to level up more
hot materials do you guess i can make
more of these
let's try it with one of these okay
let's start
[Music]
this isn't bad and let's see that's
because
we'll do that yeah
and then put that there
[Music]
sure good enough
it's good
that only gets me one xp okay
what materials to use
can i make
more than one of these
[Music]
well no i don't have enough materials to
make more than one
is this good okay let's start
[Music]
so that's what happens yeah good
this isn't bad
[Music]
there we go
all right so now i'm level six now i
just need paper to make the bomb
what materials to use
that gunpowder just need paper and
neutralizer
okay so let's go into town
[Music]
and let's see this is
now that's the world map i don't want to
go to the world map i want to go to
i need to check the cafe
welcome thank you for which request will
you accept
[Music]
i can turn in one of those
thank you so it's 37 for one
i got 10 of them so i guess it's not a
simple multiple i guess it's
i don't know
so i need to get crystal shards okay
thank you
[Music]
i may as well do that
thank you very much
and i'm sure i'll run across these guys
again
at some point and a green puny i'm sure
i'll run across these guys again welcome
what rumored any of these are time
sensitive
and uh doesn't look like it thank you
for coming sophie
what rumor do you wish to hear let's
take a look here
is that room see if any of these do
anything
is that rumor okay yeah let's see if any
of these do anything
[Music]
okay
these are cheap with how much money i
have so let's just thank you very much
may as well just get get all of these
is that thank you
[Music]
dreamers also float center rules
shouldn't get too disappointed if you
missed something well
yeah but still
[Music]
when tired you won't be able to use your
full abilities remember to rest yes
well is that room thank you very much
to go through stages when it comes to
becoming friendly getting to know
each other little by little yes
gradually become friends with people and
that unlocks conversations with them etc
etc
is that rumor okay thank you
[Music]
welcome what rumored i think that's
well yeah that's all of them right now
okay
now if we go to
[Music]
here
oh that's
hello harold
[Music]
carol simmons or simmons
and sophie why are you littering around
here
it's my line why aren't you working in
your clock shop
i'm done for the day it's past closing
time the shop had a little closing time
than this
no i changed the closing time starting
today you're just trying to slack off
again
i'm not slacking don't say rude things
like that
i'm the owner of the shop i choose when
the store opens and closes
besides i wouldn't have customers even
if it was open now
you're saying things like that again
don't act like that you need
to work you inherited that shot from
your dad after all
don't need you to tell